Step 1: Environment Setup & Kubernetes Installation
Install Docker Desktop: Ensure you have the latest version of Docker Desktop for your OS (Windows or macOS) installed and running.
Enable Kubernetes:
Open Docker Desktop Settings.
Go to the Kubernetes tab.
Check the box for Enable Kubernetes.
Click Apply & Restart. Docker will download and set up a local Kubernetes cluster. This can take several minutes.
Verify Kubernetes is Running:
Open a new terminal or PowerShell.
Run the command: kubectl cluster-info
You should see a success message indicating the "Kubernetes control plane is running".

Step2: go to grpc kubernetes folder
cd grpc kubernetes

Step 3: Build the Docker Image
This step packages all your Python code into an image that Kubernetes can run.
Navigate your terminal to the grpc-kubernetes project folder.
Run the build command. We use --no-cache to ensure it's a completely fresh build with your latest code, and we tag it with :k8s-final to match the YAML file.
run docker build --no-cache -t grpc-pipeline:k8s-final .

Step 4: Deploy to Kubernetes
This step tells Kubernetes to read your configuration and start all the services.
run kubectl apply -f grpc-pipeline-k8s.yaml
Monitor the Startup: Watch the pods being created.
run kubectl get pods -w
Wait until the STATUS for all 5 pods changes from Pending or ContainerCreating to Running. This might take a minute. Press Ctrl+C to stop watching.

Step 5: Find the Master Service Port
Once the pods are running, find the external port that Kubernetes assigned to your master service.
run kubectl get service master
Look at the PORT(S) column. You will see something like 50055:3XXXX/TCP. Note down the five-digit number (the NodePort).

Step 6: Update and Run the Client
Edit client.py: Open your client.py file and find this line:
with grpc.insecure_channel('localhost:50055') as channel:
Change the port to the NodePort you just found. For example, if the port was 31234:
with grpc.insecure_channel('localhost:31234') as channel:
Run the client:
python client.py
You should now see the successful, formatted output from the pipeline.

Step 7: Cleanup
When you are finished, remove all the deployed components from your cluster with a single command:
kubectl delete -f grpc-pipeline-k8s.yaml